.TH lariza 1 "2015-11-28" "lariza" "User Commands"
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
lariza.usage \- extended usage hints
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBlariza\fP is a simple web browser using GTK+ 3, GLib and WebKit2GTK+.
This manpage contains additional hints and pointers regarding its usage.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "BUNDLED WEB EXTENSIONS"
On startup, WebKit checks \fI~/.local/share/lariza/web_extensions\fP for
any \fB.so\fP files. See
.UR http://\:blogs.igalia.com/\:carlosgc/\:2013/\:09/\:10/\:webkit2gtk-\:web-\:process-\:extensions/
this blog post
.UE
for further information on these extensions.
.P
\fBlariza\fP comes with the following extensions:
.TP
\fBwe_adblock.so\fP
Generic adblock. Reads patterns from the file
\fI~/.config/lariza/adblock.black\fP. Each line can contain a regular
expression. These expressions match case-insensitive and partially, i.e.
\fB.*foo.*\fP is the same as \fB.*FOO.*\fP and you can use anchors like
\fB^https?://...\fP. Please refer to
.UR https://\:developer.\:gnome.\:org/\:glib/\:stable/\:glib-\:regex-\:syntax.html
the GLib reference
.UE
for more details. Lines starting with \fB#\fP are ignored.
.P
Those bundled web extensions are automatically compiled when you run
\fBmake\fP. To use them, though, make sure to copy them to the directory
mentioned above.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "DOWNLOAD MANAGER"
Open the download manager using the appropriate hotkey. A new window
listing your downloads will appear. Clicking on an item will remove it
from the list and \(em if needed \(em cancel the download.
.P
There's no file manager integration, nor does \fBlariza\fP delete,
overwrite or resume downloads. If a file already exists, it won't be
touched. Instead, the new file name will have a suffix such as \fB.1\fP,
\fB.2\fP, \fB.3\fP, and so on.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "HOTKEYS"
.SS "Main window \(em WebKit viewport focused"
.TP
\fBMod1\fP + \fBx\fP
Launch the external handler for the currently loaded URI.
.TP
\fBMod1\fP + \fBq\fP
Close the current window.
.TP
\fBMod1\fP + \fBw\fP
Go to your \(lqhomepage\(rq. See the environment variable
$\fBLARIZA_HOME_URI\fP.
.TP
\fBMod1\fP + \fBe\fP
Open a new window.
.TP
\fBMod1\fP + \fBr\fP
Reload the current page.
.TP
\fBMod1\fP + \fBd\fP
Open the download manager.
.TP
\fBMod1\fP + \fBl\fP
Focus the location bar.
.TP
\fBMod1\fP + \fBk\fP
Focus the location bar and set its text to \fB/\fP, allowing you to
easily initiate a search.
.TP
\fBMod1\fP + \fB2\fP
.TQ
\fBMod1\fP + \fBn\fP
Repeat the last search (forward).
.TP
\fBMod1\fP + \fB3\fP
Repeat the last search (backward).
.TP
\fBMod1\fP + \fBc\fP
Reload trusted certificates.
.TP
\fBEscape\fP
Stop loading.
.TP
\fBMiddle mouse\fP
Open the link under the pointer in a new window.
.TP
\fBBackward\fP / \fBforward\fP (mouse keys 8 and 9)
.TQ
\fBF2\fP / \fBF3\fP
Go backward and forward in current browser history.
.TP
\fBMod1\fP + \fBScroll up\fP
.TQ
\fBCtrl\fP + \fBScroll up\fP
Increase zoom level of the current page.
.TP
\fBMod1\fP + \fBScroll down\fP
.TQ
\fBCtrl\fP + \fBScroll down\fP
Decrase zoom level of the current page.
.TP
\fBMod1\fP + \fBScroll horizontally\fP
.TQ
\fBCtrl\fP + \fBScroll horizontally\fP
Reset zoom to $\fBLARIZA_ZOOM\fP.
.P
.SS "Main window \(em location bar focused"
.TP
\fBMod1\fP + \fBx\fP
Launch the external handler for the currently loaded URI.
.TP
\fBMod1\fP + \fBq\fP
Close the current window.
.TP
\fBMod1\fP + \fBd\fP
Open the download manager.
.TP
\fBMod1\fP + \fBr\fP
Reload the current page.
.TP
\fBMod1\fP + \fBk\fP
Reset the content of the location bar to \fB/\fP.
.TP
\fBMod1\fP + \fBc\fP
Reload trusted certificates.
.TP
\fBEscape\fP
Reset the content of the location bar to the current URI.
.TP
\fBReturn\fP
Commit, i.e. begin searching, do a keyword based search or open the URI.
.SS "Download manager"
.TP
\fBMod1\fP + \fBd\fP
Close the download manager (downloads are not aborted).
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "KEYWORD BASED SEARCHING"
In this file, you can configure keywords and the associated URIs:
\fI~/.config\:/lariza\:/keywordsearch\fP. Each line has to look like
this:
.P
\f(CW
.nf
\&wi https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Special:Search&search=%s
.fi
\fP
.P
\fBwi\fP is the keyword, so when opening \fBwi foo\fP, \fBlariza\fP
will search in Wikipedia. Note the \fB%s\fP at the end of the URI: This
is where your search term will be placed.
.P
Lines starting with \fB#\fP are ignored.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "TRUSTED CERTIFICATES"
By default, \fBlariza\fP trusts whatever CAs are trusted by WebKit, i.e. by
your GnuTLS installation. If you wish to trust additional certificates,
such as self-signed certificates, the first thing you should do is try
to add the appropriate CAs to your system-wide store.
.P
If you wish to add simple exceptions, you can grab the certificate and
store it in the directory \fI~/.config/lariza/certs\fP. The filename
must be equal to the hostname:
.P
.\f(CW
.nf
\&$ echo | openssl s_client -connect foo.de:443 | openssl x509 >foo.de
.fi
\fP
.P
This tells \fBlariza\fP to trust the given certificate when connecting
to host \fBfoo.de\fP.
.P
You can reload these certificates at runtime by pressing the appropriate
hotkey. Note that removed certificates will be kept in memory until you
restart \fBlariza\fP.
.P
Note: This is NOT equal to certificate pinning. WebKit ignores
user-specified certificates if the server's certificate can be validated
by any system-wide CA.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "EXTERNAL URI HANDLER"
\fBlariza\fP can launch an executable called
\fIlariza-external-handler\fP. It will be passed the \(lqselected\(rq
URI as a command line argument:
.P
.\f(CW
.nf
$ lariza-external-handler -u https://github.com
.fi
\fP
.P
This executable must be a user-supplied program. It can do anything it
wants to with that URI. \fBlariza\fP ignores the exit code of the
handler.
.P
The \fB\-u\fP will always be set. This allows you to use \fBgetopt\fP(1)
like parameter parsing in your program.
.P
You can either use the appropriate hotkey (see list above) to launch the
handler with the currently loaded URI, or you can perform a right click
on any link, image or media file to use that URI.
.P
This mechanism allows you to implement a variety of functions. You might
want to implement a bookmarking script or a password manager or you
might simply load the current URI in a different browser. That's up to
you.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "USING LARIZA WITH TABBED"
By default, \fBlariza\fP automatically launches an instance of suckless'
\fBtabbed\fP(1).
.P
You can turn this feature off (see command line arguments) or you can
specify a command line argument to embed \fBlariza\fP into an arbitrary
container (XEMBED). Note that \fBlariza\fP will also automatically embed
new windows in the same container.
.P
When using the automatically launched \fBtabbed\fP(1) instance, you
can't use \fBtabbed\fP(1)'s \fBCtrl + Shift + Return\fP hotkey. This is
because \fBtabbed\fP(1) is launched with \fB\-d\fP, so it knows nothing
about \fBlariza\fP. However, \fBlariza\fP provides its own hotkey to
launch a new window which will be embedded in the same instance of
\fBtabbed\fP(1).
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "WEBKIT LOCAL STORAGE"
WebKit does create files in your $\fBXDG_*\fP directories, i.e.
\fI~/.local/share\fP or \fI~/.cache\fP. It's up to you what you want to
do with this junk. I remove it regularly when no WebKit browser is
running. Another option would be to change the $\fBXDG_*\fP variables.
.P
I have explicitly not turned off the local storage feature in WebKit
because I don't know if this breaks web applications.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lariza (1).
