.TH lariza 1 "2015-11-28" "lariza" "User Commands"
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
lariza \- simple web browser
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBlariza\fP
[\fB\-e\fP \fIwid\fP]
[\fB\-C\fP]
[\fB\-T\fP]
[\fIURI ...\fP]
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBlariza\fP is a simple web browser using GTK+ 3, GLib and WebKit2GTK+.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS
In addition to the standard arguments of GTK+ 3, \fBlariza\fP knows
about the following options:
.TP
\fB\-e\fP \fIwid\fP
Embeds the main window and all newly created windows in the window
specified by \fIwid\fP. The download manager is always a \(lqpopup\(rq.
.TP
\fB\-C\fP
Disables cooperative instances.
.TP
\fB\-T\fP
Disables automatic launching of suckless' \fBtabbed\fP(1).
.P
After these options there can be any number of URIs. If no URIs are
given, $\fBLARIZA_HOME_URI\fP will be opened.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH ENVIRONMENT
In addition to the standard variables of GTK+ 3, \fBlariza\fP knows
about the following environment variables:
.P
.TP
\fBLARIZA_ACCEPTED_LANGUAGE\fP
In HTTP requests, WebKit sets the \(lqAccepted-Language\(rq header to
this value. Defaults to \fBen-US\fP.
.TP
\fBLARIZA_CRASH_AUTORELOAD_DELAY\fP
If/when the WebKit process crashes, \fBlariza\fP's main process will
receive a signal and can act accordingly. The default value of this
variable is \fB2\fP, which means that \fBlariza\fP will wait two seconds
and then reload each window/tab.

If you set $\fBLARIZA_CRASH_AUTORELOAD_DELAY\fP to zero or any negative
value, then \fBlariza\fP will not automatically reload anything. Note,
however, that you can still do this manually by pressing the
\(lqreload\(rq hotkey for each window.
.TP
\fBLARIZA_DOWNLOAD_DIR\fP
All downloads are automatically stored in this directory. If you want to
stick to XDG directories, then you should configure your
\(lqxdg-user-dirs\(rq and use this:

\f(CW
.nf
\&LARIZA_DOWNLOAD_DIR=$(xdg-user-dir DOWNLOAD)
.fi
\fP

This variable defaults to \fB/var/tmp\fP.
.TP
\fBLARIZA_FIFO_SUFFIX\fP
Cooperative instances are implemented using a named pipe in the file
system. The name of this pipe usually is (at least on modern systems
following XDG \(lqstandards\(rq):
\fI/var\:/run\:/user\:/$UID\:/lariza.fifo\:-$LARIZA_FIFO_SUFFIX\fP.

$\fBUID\fP is the id of your user. $\fBLARIZA_FIFO_SUFFIX\fP defaults to
\fBmain\fP. If you change this variable, you can launch several
independent cooperative instances of \fBlariza\fP.
.TP
\fBLARIZA_HOME_URI\fP
This URI will be opened by pressing the appropriate hotkeys
(\(lqhomepage\(rq or \(lqnew window\(rq) and if no URIs are specified on
the command line. Defaults to \fBabout:blank\fP.
.TP
\fBLARIZA_USER_AGENT\fP
\fBlariza\fP will identify itself with this string. Uses WebKit's
default value if unset.
.TP
\fBLARIZA_ZOOM
Zoom level for WebKit viewports. Defaults to \fB1.0\fP.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH FILES
XDG variables will be used to construct these paths.
.TP
\fI~/.config\:/lariza\:/adblock.black\fP
Adblock patterns. See \fBlariza.usage\fP(1).
.TP
\fI~/.config\:/lariza\:/certs\fP
Directory where trusted certificates are stored. See
\fBlariza.usage\fP(1).
.TP
\fI~/.config\:/lariza\:/keywordsearch\fP
Configuration file for keyword base searching. See
\fBlariza.usage\fP(1).
.TP
\fI~/.local\:/share\:/lariza\:/web_extensions\fP
Sets the directory where WebKit will look for web extensions. See
\fBlariza.usage\fP(1).
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH LICENSE
\fBlariza\fP is released as \(lqPIZZA-WARE\(rq. See the accompanying
\fILICENSE\fP file.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH HISTORY
\fBlariza\fP was originally written by Peter Hofmann. The project
was started in June 2014.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lariza.usage (1),
.BR tabbed (1).
